1.5mm between through hole connection for oscillator and bottom of body before being bent into place
body should be bent over a ground plane for protection
conformal coating highly reccomended
Keeping the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) below acceptable limits for a perfect operation of the
oscillator means more severe constraints on the oscillator PCB design to reduce its
sensitivity to noise.
Therefore, great care must be taken when designing the PCB to reduce as much as
possible the SNR. A non exhaustive list of precautions to take when designing the oscillator
PCB is provided below:
• Avoid high values of stray capacitance and inductances, as they can lead to
uncontrollable oscillation (the oscillator can resonate at overtones or harmonic
frequencies). Reducing the stray capacitance also decreases startup time and
improves oscillation frequency stability.
• To reduce high frequency noise propagation across the board, the MCU/MPU must
have a stable power supply source, to ensure noiseless crystal oscillations. This means
that well-sized decoupling capacitor must be used for powering the device.
• Mount the crystal as close as possible to the MCU/MPU, to keep tracks short, and to
reduce inductive and capacitive effects. A guard ring around these connections,
connected to the ground, is essential to avoid capturing unwanted noise, which can
affect oscillation stability.
Long tracks/paths behave as antennas for a given frequency spectrum, generating
oscillation issues when passing EMI certification tests. Refer to Figure 14 and
Figure 16.
• Any path conveying high-frequency signals must be routed away from the oscillator
paths and components. Refer to Figure 14.
• The oscillator PCB must be underlined with a dedicated underneath ground plane,
distinct from the application PCB ground plane. The oscillator ground plane should be
connected to the nearest MCU/MPU ground. It prevents interferences between the
oscillator components and other application components (for example, crosstalk
between paths). If a crystal in a metallic package is used, do not connect it to the
oscillator ground. Refer to Figure 13, Figure 14, and Figure 15.
• Leakage current can increase startup time and even prevent the oscillator start. If the
device operates in a severe environment (high moisture/humidity ratio), an external
coating is recommended. 

Design:
CFS-206 32.768 kHz ±10ppm Crystal 6pF 35 kOhms Cylindrical Can, Radial
C_L=6.0pF